# kuma_sentences
This python script will take a vocabulary list in csv format of any language as input and have chatgpt create random, basic, sentences in your chosen target language using that vocabulary word.  It can save the output as a separate csv file and save the audio to mp3.  Parts of this script are generated by ChatGPT 3.5.

This was written for two purposes:
 1. To fill a personal need for my language study
 2. To learn how to use and manipulate ChatGPT

## Usage

 1. Clone this repository
 2. You will need an openai api key.  [How to Geek](https://www.howtogeek.com/885918/how-to-get-an-openai-api-key/) has an easy to follow guide. Save this key to the `secrets.json` file.

```json
{
   "openai": {
       "api_key": "YOUR_KEY_HERE"
   }
}
```
 3. run `find_voices.py` to find the available voices on your machine.  I'll add some information into here later on how to do this per OS.
 4. Make necessary modifications to the setup items.  See comments below.

```python
#############
# Setup items
#############

make_audio = True # True synthesizes speech, False does not and only gives text response
save_audio = True # True will save the synthesized speech as mp3, false does not
create_or_translate = "translate" # Set to create to make a target language sentence from a vocab, set to translate to just do a one for one translation
audio_path = "audio\\" # Path to save the audio files
anki_path = "anki\\" # Path to save anki files (future improvement)
target_lang = "Japanese" # Set this as the language you wish to return (i.e. Japanese, Russian, English, etc.)

```
 5. Create your list of starting words and save as ```input.csv```.  The script does not expect headers and will only read data from the first column.
 6. Run the ```translate.py``` script and it will read your input and return translations.  Translations are saved as ```output.csv```, audio will be saved in the audio folder.

## To Do
 - [x] Connect Python to ChatGPT programmatically
 - [x] Send input list to ChatGPT and have it translated
 - [x] Save output as returned from ChatGPT
 - [x] Synthesize speech natively
 - [x] Save speech files
 - [ ] Ask to n-number of phonetically similar sentences and use to create quizes
 - [ ] Create Anki decks based off the translations

## Results

So far I am very happy with my first foray into AI programming asistance.  As you can tell my programming is amateurish at best, but this is a project I could have done on my own.  AI helped me create this in a much, much faster time: I would estimate it took 25-35% of the time if I had just started writing from scratch.  This is a simple project, but I did have to touch 45% of the code and then used those bits and pieces to make improvements.
